# Sentiment Analysis and NER on Boeing Stock Related Tweets
 This Project is based on the efforts to Analyze the twitter sentiments on Boeing over time and also analyse the entities that are related/mentioned in the tweets. Please find the attached **Twitter Senitment Analysis along with Named Entity Recognition project report.pdf** for a detailed work report. <br>
<br>
## Sentiment Analysis
 The sentiment analysis was conducted on the prepared data using the **Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner (VADER) scoring technique**. The pre-trained SentimentIntensityAnalyzer class from the Natural Language Toolkit **nlkt.sentiment** was used for this analysis. The scoring technique is used to evaluate the tweets and assign the corresponding sores to the adjacent column (“compound_sentiment_score”). <br>
Three word clouds are prepared for analysis from the positive (score > 00.5), negative (score < 0.05) and neutral (-0.05 > score < 0.05) scored tweets to check the most frequent words leading to these sentiment. <br>
Another important aspect i.e. **Temporal Sentiment Analysis** was taken into account and is plotted to check the valuable insights on how the sentiment changes over different time periods and that can be used to observe trends, patterns, or specific events that influence sentiment. Finally the tweets with highest and lowest scores are checked. <br>
<br>
## Named Entity Recognition (NER)
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is a subtask of information extraction that seeks to locate and classify named entities mentioned in unstructured text into predefined categories such as the names of persons, organizations, locations, expressions of times, quantities, monetary values, percentages, etc. <br>
**Spacy**'s NER model, specifically the **en_core_web_sm** is a small English model trained on written web text (blogs, news, comments), utilizes a statistical machine learning system. The system usually consists of a series of models that predict which parts of a sentence are names of things, such as companies or places, and what type of name they are (e.g., a person name vs. a company name). Spacy's pipeline processes text in several steps, one of them being the NER which uses a combination of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for tagging entities. The CNNs are used to extract features from the text.
